duration of the debarment. The debarment for such other procuring entities shall take effect
prospectively from the date on which it comes to the notice of other procurement entities, in the
manner prescribed under paragraph Sh below.
h. The Department of Expenditure shall issue suitable instructions for the effective and smooth
operation of this process, so that:
i. The fact and duration of debarment for violation of this Order by any procuring entity are
promptly brought to the notice of the Member-Convenor of the Standing Committee and
the Department of Expenditure through the concerned Ministry /Department or in some
other manner;
ii. on a periodical basis such cases are consolidated and a centralized list or decentralized
lists of such suppliers with the period of debarment is maintained and displayed on
website(s);
iii. in respect of procuring entities other than the one which has carried out the debarment,
the debarment takes effect prospectively from the date of uploading on the website(s) in
the such a manner that ongoing procurements are not disrupted.
10. Specifications in Tenders and other procurement solicitations:
a. Every procuring entity shall ensure that the eligibility conditions in respect of previous
experience fixed in any tender or solicitation do not require proof of supply in other countries or
proof of exports.
b. Procuring entities shall endeavour to see that eligibility conditions, including on matters like
turnover, production capability and financial strength do not result in unreasonable exclusion of
local suppliers who would otherwise be eligible, beyond what is essential for ensuring quality
or creditworthiness of the supplier.
c. Procuring entities shall, within 2 months of the issue of this Order review all existing eligibility
norms and conditions with reference to sub-paragraphs ‘a’ and ‘b’ above.
d. If a Nodal Ministry is satisfied that Indian suppliers of an item are not allowed to participate
and/ or compete in procurement by any foreign government, it may, if it deems appropriate,
restrict or exclude bidders from that country from eligibility for procurement of that item and/ or
other items relating to that Nodal Ministry. A copy of every instruction or decision taken in this
regard shall be sent to the Chairman of the Standing Committee.
e. For the purpose of sub-paragraph 10 d above, a supplier or bidder shall be considered to be
from a country if (i) the entity is incorporated in that country, or ii) a majority of its shareholding
or effective control of the entity is exercised from that country; or (iii) more that 50% of the
value of the item being supplied has been added in that country. Indian suppliers shall mean
those entities which meet any of these tests with respect to India.”
I Contd.p.5/-