11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
Be
Assessment of supply base by Nodal Ministries: The Nodal Ministry shall keep in view the
domestic manufacturing / supply base and assess the available capacity and the extent of local
competition while identifying items and prescribing minimum local content or the manner of its
calculation, with a view to avoiding cost increase from the operation of this Order.
Increase in minimum local content: The Nodal Ministry may annually review the local content
requirements with a view to increasing them, subject to availability of sufficient local competition
with adequate quality.
Manufacture under license/ technology collaboration agreements with phased
indigenization: While notifying the minimum local content, Nodal Ministries may make special
provisions for exempting suppliers from meeting the stipulated local content if the product is being
manufactured in India under a license from a foreign manufacturer who holds intellectual property
rights and where there is a technology collaboration agreement / transfer of technology agreement
for indigenous manufacture of a product developed abroad with clear phasing of increase in local
content.
Powers to grant exemption and to reduce minimum local content: Ministries /Departments of
Government of India and the Boards of Directors of Government companies or autonomous bodies
may, by written order,
a. reduce the minimum local content below the prescribed level;
b. reduce the margin of purchase preference below 20% ;
c. exempt any particular item or procuring or supplying entities or class or classes of items or
procuring or supplying entities from the operation of this Order or any part of the Order.
A copy of every such order shall be marked to the Member-Convenor of the Standing Committee
constituted under this Order.
Directions to Government companies: In respect of Government companies and other procuring
entities not governed by the General Financial Rules, the administrative Ministry or Department
shall issue policy directions requiring compliance with this Order.
Standing Committee: A standing committee is hereby constituted with the following membership:
Secretary, Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion—Chairman
Secretary, Commerce—Member
Secretary, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology—Member
Joint Secretary (Public Procurement), Department of Expenditure—Member
Joint Secretary (DIPP)—Member-Convenor
The Secretary of the Department concerned with a particular item shall be a member in respect
of issues relating to such item. The Chairman of the Committee may co-opt technical experts as
relevant to any issue or class of issues under its consideration.
WO. Contd.p.6/-