a.
‘Procuring entity’ means a Ministry or department or attached or subordinate office of, or
autonomous body controlled by, the Government of India and includes Government companies as
defined in the Companies Act.
3. Requirement of Purchase Preference: Subject to the provisions of this Order and to any specific
instructions issued by the Nodal Ministry or in pursuance of this Order, purchase preference shall
be given to local suppliers in all procurements undertaken by procuring entities in the manner
specified hereunder:
a.
In procurement of goods in respect of which the Nodal Ministry has communicated that there is
sufficient local capacity and local competition, and where the estimated value of procurement
is Rs. 50 lakhs or less, only local suppliers shall be eligible. If the estimated value of
procurement of such goods is more than Rs. 50 lakhs, the provisions of sub-paragraph b or c,
as the case may be, shall apply.
In the procurements of goods which are not covered by paragraph 3a and which are divisible
in nature, the following procedure shall be followed:
Among all qualified bids, the lowest bid will be termed as L1. If L1 is from a local
supplier, the contract for full quantity will be awarded to L1.
If L1 bid is not from a local supplier, 50% of the order quantity shall be awarded to L1.
Thereafter, the lowest bidder among the local suppliers, will be invited to match the L1
price for the remaining 50% quantity subject to the local supplier's quoted price falling
within the margin of purchase preference, and contract for that quantity shall be awarded
to such local supplier subject to matching the L1 price. In case such lowest eligible local
supplier fails to match the L1 price or accepts less than the offered quantity, the next
higher local supplier within the margin of purchase preference shall be invited to match
the L1 price for remaining quantity and so on, and contract shall be awarded accordingly.
In case some quantity is still left uncovered on local suppliers, then such balance
quantity may also be ordered on the L1 bidder.
In procurements of goods not covered by sub-paragraph 3a and which are not divisible, and in
procurement of services where the bid is evaluated on price alone, the following procedure
shall be followed:
iii.
Among all qualified bids, the lowest bid will be termed as L1. If L1 is from a local
supplier, the contract will be awarded to L1.
If L1 is not from a local supplier, the lowest bidder among the local suppliers, will be
invited to match the L1 price subject to local supplier's quoted price falling within the
margin of purchase preference, and the contract shall be awarded to such local supplier
subject to matching the L1 price.
In case such lowest eligible local supplier fails to match the L1 price, the local supplier
with the next higher bid within the margin of purchase preference shall be invited to
match the L1 price and so on and contract shall be awarded accordingly. In case none of
the local suppliers within the margin of purchase preference matches the L1 price, then
the contract may be awarded to the L1 bidder.
WO Contd. p.3/-