3:
Exemption of small purchases: Notwithstanding anything contained in paragraph 3,
procurements where the estimated value to be procured is less than Rs. 5 lakhs shall be exempt
from this Order. However, it shall be ensured by procuring entities that procurement is not split for
the purpose of avoiding the provisions of this Order.
Minimum local content: The minimum local content shall ordinarily be 50%. The Nodal Ministry
may prescribe a higher or lower percentage in respect of any particular item and may also
prescribe the manner of calculation of local content.
Margin of Purchase Preference: The margin of purchase preference shall be 20% .
Requirement for specification in advance: The minimum local content, the margin of purchase
preference and the procedure for preference to Make in India shall be specified in the notice
inviting tenders or other form of procurement solicitation and shall not be varied during a particular
procurement transaction.
. Government E-marketplace: In respect of procurement through the Government E-marketplace
(GeM) shall, as far as possible, specifically mark the items which meet the minimum local content
while registering the item for display, and shall, wherever feasible, make provision for automated
comparison with purchase preference and without purchase preference and for obtaining consent
of the local supplier in those cases where purchase preference is to be exercised.
Verification of local content;
a. The local supplier at the time of tender, bidding or solicitation shall be required to provide self-
certification that the item offered meets the minimum local content and shall give details of the
location(s) at which the local value addition is made.
b. In cases of procurement for a value in excess of Rs. 10 crores, the local supplier shall be
required to provide a certificate from the statutory auditor or cost auditor of the company (in the
case of companies) or from a practicing cost accountant or practicing chartered accountant (in
respect of suppliers other than companies) giving the percentage of local content.
c. Decisions on complaints relating to implementation of this Order shall be taken by the
competent authority which is empowered to look into procurement-related complaints relating
to the procuring entity.
d. Nodal Ministries may constitute committees with internal and external experts for independent
verification of self-declarations and auditor's/ accountant’s certificates on random basis and in
the case of complaints.
e. Nodal Ministries and procuring entities may prescribe fees for such complaints.
f. False declarations will be in breach of the Code of Integrity under Rule 175(1)(i)(h) of the
General Financial Rules for which a bidder or its successors can be debarred for up to two
years as per Rule 151 (iii) of the General Financial Rules along with such other actions as may
be permissible under law.
g. A supplier who has been debarred by any procuring entity for violation of this Order shall not
be eligible for preference under this Order for procurement by any other procuring entity for the
YE Contd.p.4/-