No. P-45021/2/2017-B.E.-II
Government of India
Ministry of Commerce and Industry
Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion
* 3% kk
Dated 15" June, 2017
Udyog Bhawan, New Delhi
To
All Central Ministries/Departments/CPSUs/All concerned
ORDER
Subject: Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017
Whereas it is the policy of the Government of India to encourage ‘Make in India’ and promote
manufacturing and production of goods and services in India with a view to enhancing income and
employment, and
Whereas procurement by the Government is substantial in amount and can contribute towards
this policy objective, and
Whereas local content can be increased through partnerships, cooperation with local
companies, establishing production units in India or Joint Ventures (JV) with Indian suppliers,
increasing the participation of local employees in services and training them,
Now therefore the following Order is issued :
1. This Order is issued pursuant to Rule 153 (iii) of the General Financial Rules 2017.
2. Definitions: For the purposes of this Order:
Local content’ means the amount of value added in India which shall, unless otherwise prescribed
by the Nodal Ministry, be the total value of the item procured (excluding net domestic indirect
taxes) minus the value of imported content in the item (including all customs duties) as a proportion
of the total value, in percent.
Local supplier’ means a supplier or service provider whose product or service offered for
procurement meets the minimum local content as prescribed under this Order or by the competent
Ministries / Departments in pursuance of this order.
L1" means the lowest tender or lowest bid or the lowest quotation received in a tender, bidding
process or other procurement solicitation as adjudged in the evaluation process as per the tender
or other procurement solicitation.
‘margin of purchase preference’ means the maximum extent to which the price quoted by a local
supplier may be above the L1 for the purpose of purchase preference.
‘Nodal Ministry’ means the Ministry or Department identified pursuant to this order in respect of a
particular item of goods or services.
a. Contd. p.2/-