17.
18.
19.
20.
-6-
Functions of the Standing Committee: The Standing Committee shall meet as often as
necessary but not less than once in six months. The Committee
a. shall oversee the implementation of this order and issues arising therefrom, and make
recommendations to Nodal Ministries and procuring entities.
b. shall annually assess and periodically monitor compliance with this Order
c. shall identify Nodal Ministries and the allocation of items among them for issue of notifications
on minimum local content
d. may require furnishing of details or returns regarding compliance with this Order and related
matters
e. may, during the annual review or otherwise, assess issues, if any, where it is felt that the
manner of implementation of the order results in any restrictive practices, cartelization or
increase in public expenditure and suggest remedial measures
f. may examine cases covered by paragraph 13 above relating to manufacture under license/
technology transfer agreements with a view to satisfying itself that adequate mechanisms exist
for enforcement of such agreements and for attaining the underlying objective of progressive
indigenization
g. may consider any other issue relating to this Order which may arise.
Removal of difficulties: Ministries /Departments and the Boards of Directors of Government
companies may issue such clarifications and instructions as may be necessary for the removal of
any difficulties arising in the implementation of this Order.
Ministries having existing policies: Where any Ministry or Department has its own policy for
preference to local content approved by the Cabinet after 1! January 2015, such policies will
prevail over the provisions of this Order. All other existing orders on preference to local content
shall be reviewed by the Nodal Ministries and revised as needed to conform to this Order, within
two months of the issue of this Order.
Transitional provision: This Order shall not apply to any tender or procurement for which notice
inviting tender or other form of procurement solicitation has been issued before the issue of this
Order.
Under Secretary to Government of |ndia
Ph. 23061257